DATA TRANSLATION, INC.
SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT
[United States Version]

NOTICE:  READ THIS SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT CAREFULLY BEFORE USING THE SOFTWARE. USING THE SOFTWARE CONSTITUTES YOUR AGREEMENT TO ALL OF THE TERMS OF THIS SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO ALL OF THE TERMS, PLEASE
RETURN THE PACKAGE TO DATA TRANSLATION, INC. WITHIN TEN (10) DAYS FOR A FULL REFUND. LICENSEE'S PURCHASE ORDER OR SIMILAR TERMS SHALL NOT APPLY TO THIS AGREEMENT.

This SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT (the Agreement) is effective as of the date of receipt of the Software (unless returned as specified above) (the Effective Date), and is entered into by and between Data Translation, Inc. a Delaware corporation with offices at 100 Locke Drive, Marlboro, Massachusetts 01752 (Data Translation) and the licensee identified in the purchase order issued to obtain this software (Licensee).

 
1.  DEFINITIONS.  For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the respective meanings set forth below:

Software means the object code version of the application software that was created by Data Translation, Inc.

Affiliate means any entity in which Licensee owns more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting securities, for such periods as Licensee continues to own such equity interest.

Confidential Information means Data Translation pricing or information concerning new Products, trade secrets (including without limitation all internal header information contained in or created by the Software, all benchmark and performance test results and all Documentation) and other proprietary information of Data Translation; and any business, marketing or technical information disclosed by Data Translation or its representatives in relation to this Agreement, and either (i) disclosed in writing and marked as confidential at the time of disclosure or (ii) disclosed in any other manner such that a reasonable person would understand the nature and confidentiality of the information. Confidential Information does not include information (a) already in the possession of Licensee without an obligation of confidentiality to Data Translation, (b) hereafter rightfully furnished to Licensee by a third party without a breach of any separate nondisclosure obligation to Data Translation, (c) publicly available without breach of this Agreement, or (d) independently developed by Licensee without use of or reference to the Confidential Information. Licensee will bear the burden of establishing any of these exclusions.  Only the specific information that meets the exclusions will be excluded, and not any other information that happens to appear in proximity to the excluded portions (for example, a portion of a document may be excluded without affecting the confidential nature of those portions that do not themselves qualify for exclusion).

Documentation means the user guide(s) and other documentation delivered by Data Translation in paper or digital form to Licensee with the Software. Fees means license fees and support fees, collectively. Licensed Processor means those CPU’s identified in Licensee’s purchase order for which Licensee has paid all applicable license fees. 

Product means any computer program designated and separately marketed by Data Translation, even if the Product is capable of being integrated with other Products or is similar to other Products.

Captions and headings contained in this Agreement have been included for ease of reference and convenience and shall not be considered in interpreting or construing this Agreement.



2.  LICENSE GRANT

2.1  Software & Documentation.  Subject to the terms and conditions contained herein, Data Translation grants to Licensee, and Licensee accepts, a non-exclusive, nontransferable right and license: (a) to use the Software only 
on the Licensed Processors; (b) to use the Documentation, in each of the foregoing cases only for Licensee’s own internal business purposes.  A separate license to the Software must be purchased for use on each additional Licensed
Processor.  Licensee may not copy the Documentation. Additional copies of the Documentation and licenses for additional CPUs, each subject to the same limitations as set forth herein, may be purchased from Data Translation at Data
Translation’s then current prices.  Except as specifically permitted in this Agreement, Licensee shall not directly or indirectly: (i) use any Confidential Information to create any software or documentation that is similar to 
any of the Software or Documentation; (ii) encumber, transfer, rent, lease, time-share or use the Software in any service bureau arrangement; or (iii) copy (except for archival purposes), distribute (except by using the 
Distribution Wizard, described in Section 2.5), manufacture, adapt, create derivative works of, translate, localize, port or otherwise modify the Software, or permit any third party to engage in any of the acts proscribed 
in clauses (i) through (iii).  Licensee assumes sole responsibility for obtaining any software required for use of the Software, including any operating system software, database software, or third party applications software.

2.2  Reverse Engineering.  Except as described in this Section 2.2, Licensee is not permitted: (a) to decompile, disassemble, reverse compile, reverse assemble, reverse translate or otherwise reverse engineer the Software; 
(b) to use any similar means to discover the source code of the Software or to discover the trade secrets in the Software; or (c) to otherwise circumvent any technological measure that controls access to the Software.  
Licensee may reverse engineer or otherwise circumvent the technological measures protecting the Software for the sole purpose of identifying and analyzing those elements that are necessary to achieve Interoperability
(the Permitted Objective) only if: (i) doing so is necessary to achieve the Permitted Objective and it does not constitute infringement under Title 17 of the United States Code; (ii) such circumvention is confined to those 
parts of the Software and to such acts as are necessary to achieve the Permitted Objective; (iii) the information to be gained thereby has not already been made readily available to Licensee or has not been provided by Data Translation within a reasonable time after a written request by Licensee to Data Translation to provide such information; (iv) the information gained is not used for any purpose other than the Permitted Objective and is not disclosed to any other person except as may be necessary to achieve the Permitted Objective; and (v) the information obtained is not used (A) to create a computer program substantially similar in its expression to the
Software including, but not limited to, expressions of the Software in other computer languages, or (B) for any other act restricted by Data Translation's intellectual property rights in the Software.  Interoperability shall have the same meaning in this Agreement as defined in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, 17 U.S.C. §1201(f), the ability of computer programs to exchange information and of such programs mutually to use the information which has been exchanged.

2.3  License to the Government.  If any Software or Documentation is acquired by or on behalf of a unit or agency of the United States Government, the Government agrees that such Software or documentation is "commercial computer
software" or "commercial computer software documentation" and that, absent a written agreement to the contrary, the Government's rights with respect to such Software or Documentation are, in the case of civilian agency use,
Restricted Rights, as defined in FAR §52.227.19, and if for Department of Defense use, limited by the terms of this Agreement, pursuant to DFARS §227.7202.

2.4  Additional Processors and Changes in Licensed Processors.  Licensee shall not install or use the  Software on or with any processor other than a Licensed Processor without fully complying with the terms of this Section 2.4. 
So long as the total number of Licensed Processors does not increase, Licensee may de-install the Software from any Licensed Processor and install the Software on a new processor(s) (the New Processor) (consistent with the other 
requirements of this Section 2).  If the total number of Licensed Processors increases by way of a processor change or the addition of a New Processor, Licensee shall pay the then current additional Fees in respect of the additional processors.  No Fees will be rebated in respect of the removal of the Software from any Licensed Processor. Upon full payment of the applicable Fees in respect of any New Processor (if applicable), the New Processor shall
be deemed to be a Licensed Processor for all purposes under this Agreement, effective as of the later of the notice date and the payment date. 

2.5  Distributing Software.  Using the Distribution Wizard only, licensee can distribute the Software to any user free of charge. Any software files that are distributed must conform to the license agreement set forth by the company
that created the software. 

3.  PROPRIETARY RIGHTS.  Data Translation and its licensors retain all rights, title and interest in the Software and Documentation and Licensee shall not take any action inconsistent with such title and ownership. Licensee shall not alter or remove any printed or on-screen copyright, trade secret, proprietary or other legal notices contained on or in copies of any Software or Documentation.  Licensee acknowledges and agrees that the Software may contain code or
require devices that detect or prevent unauthorized use of the Software.

4.  CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.  Except for the specific rights granted by this Agreement, Licensee shall not use or disclose any Confidential Information without the written consent of Data Translation.  Licensee shall use the highest commercially reasonable degree of care to protect the Confidential Information, including ensuring that its employees, agents, subcontractors and consultants with access to such Confidential Information have agreed in writing not to disclose the Confidential Information on terms no less restrictive that those contained in this Agreement.  Licensee shall bear the responsibility for any breaches of confidentiality by its employees, agents and subcontractors and consultants.
Within fifteen (15) days after request by Data Translation, Licensee shall either return to Data Translation all originals and copies of any Confidential Information and all information, records and materials developed therefrom by Licensee, or destroy the same.  Licensee may only disclose the general nature, but not the specific financial terms, of this Agreement without the prior written consent of Data Translation.  Licensee will promptly notify Data Translation of
any actual or suspected unauthorized use or disclosure of any Confidential Information and will cooperate with Data Translation in the investigation of such unauthorized use or disclosure.  Nothing herein shall prevent Licensee from 
disclosing all or part of the confidential Information as necessary pursuant to the lawful requirement of a governmental agency or when disclosure is required by operation of law; provided that prior to any such disclosure, Licensee shall use reasonable efforts to (i) promptly notify Data Translation in writing of such requirement to disclose, and (ii) cooperate fully with Data Translation in protecting against any such disclosure 
or obtaining a protective order.  Money damages will not be an adequate remedy if this Section 4 or Sections 2 or 3 are breached and, therefore, Data Translation shall, in addition to any other legal or equitable remedies, be entitled to an injunction or similar equitable relief against such breach or threatened breach without the necessity of posting any bond.

5.  PAYMENTS. Before using the Software on or with the Licensed Processors, Licensee shall pay to Data Translation the Fees. All other amounts that may become due hereunder shall be paid within thirty (30) days after the invoice for such charges.  All payments due under this Agreement shall be made in U.S. dollars at Data Translation's address. Any amount not paid when due shall bear a late payment charge, until paid, at the rate of 1.5% per month or, if lesser, the maximum amount permitted by law.  All shipments by Data Translation shall be F.O.B. origin.  All payments required by this Agreement are exclusive of federal, state, local and foreign taxes, duties, tariffs, levies and similar assessments and Licensee agrees to bear and be responsible for the payment of all such charges imposed upon Software and Documentation used, copied or distributed by Licensee hereunder, excluding taxes based upon Data Translation's net income.  All amounts due hereunder shall be grossed-up for any withholding taxes imposed by any foreign government.

6.  INDEPENDENT AUDIT.  Data Translation shall have the right upon reasonable advance written notice, to have an independent auditor verify Licensee's compliance with this Agreement.  Licensee shall make its Licensed Processors and all applicable books and records available for such inspection during normal business hours at Licensee's principal place of business. Any such audit shall be at the expense of Data Translation, unless such audit discloses an underpayment by the Licensee for the audited period in excess of five percent (5%), in which case Licensee shall reimburse Data Translation for such expenses. If the audit discloses any underpayment by Licensee, Licensee shall promptly make payment to Data Translation of such underpayment in respect of the Unlicensed Processors, together with interest.  Unlicensed Processor means any processor with which the Software is used or upon which Software resides,
other than Licensed Processors for which Fees have been fully paid.

7.  SUPPORT & UPGRADES.  Data Translation’s current support policy (as amended from time to time by Data Translation) (the Support Policy) is included with the Documentation.  Licensee may elect to obtain support services at Data Translation's current price and may, pursuant to the Support Policy, elect to renew support at such prices and upon such terms and conditions as Data Translation may publish from time to time.  If Licensee elects to obtain support, the terms of this Agreement, supplemented by the Support Policy terms, shall govern the support arrangements. Any revisions to the Software delivered by way of support services shall be treated for all purposes under this Agreement as Software and all intellectual property rights therein shall be retained by Data Translation. If Data Translation elects to make revisions or updates to the Software available to Licensee, such revisions and updates shall be provided solely in accordance with the Support Policy. Data Translation shall have no obligation to revise or update the Software or to support any version of the Software other than the then current
version and the immediately previous Enhanced Release (as defined in the Support Policy). During the Software Warranty Period, support services shall be provided at no additional charge to Licensee.

9.  TERM AND TERMINATION.  This Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and may only be terminated as provided herein. This Agreement may be terminated: (a) by Licensee, upon notice to Data Translation; or (b) by either party, in the event the other party materially breaches a provision of this Agreement and the breaching party fails to cure such breach within thirty (30) days of the receipt of notice of such breach from the non-breaching party.
If Licensee terminates this Agreement pursuant to Section 9(a) or if Data Translation terminates this Agreement pursuant to Section 9(b), then Licensee shall pay all amounts due hereunder.  If Licensee terminates this Agreement
pursuant to Section 9(b), then Data Translation shall reimburse Licensee for the amount of pre-paid support fees, if any, pro-rated as of the termination date.  Upon termination of this Agreement for any reason, all rights, 
obligations and licenses of the parties hereunder shall cease, except as follows: (1) Licensee's liability for any charges, payments or expenses due to Data Translation that accrued prior to the termination date shall not be 
extinguished by termination, and such amounts (if not otherwise due on an earlier date) shall be immediately due and payable on the termination date; (2)  Licensee shall have no further right to use the Software or Documentation
and immediately after the termination or expiration date hereof, the Licensee shall deliver to Data Translation, at Licensee's expense, all originals and copies of the (i) Software, (ii) Documentation and (iii) Confidential 
Information in the possession or under the control of Licensee, and Licensee shall certifying in writing to Data Translation within ten (10) days following termination that it has complied with this Section 9(2); and 
(3) the provisions of Sections 3 (Proprietary Rights), 4 (Confidential Information), 10 (Warranty), 11 (Limitation of Liability), 12 (Compliance with Laws), 13 (General Provisions) and this Section 9 shall survive any termination
or expiration of this Agreement.


10.  WARRANTY AND DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.  
(a)  Media Warranty.  Data Translation warrants that the media containing the Software will be free from defects in material and workmanship under normal use for a period of one (1) year from the date of shipment of the
Software from Data Translation.  Licensee’s exclusive remedy and Data Translation’s sole liability with respect to a breach of this warranty, is replacement of the defective media.

(b)  Software Warranty. Data Translation warrants that the Software shall operate in substantial conformance with the accompanying Documentation for a period of ninety (90) days from the date of shipment of the Software from
Data Translation (the Software Warranty Period).  This warranty is limited and shall  not apply to: (i) any Software where the failure of the Software to satisfy this warranty is determined by Data Translation to result  from (1) 
improper use of the Software, (2) failure to implement all releases, enhancements and corrections to the Software previously offered to Licensee by Data Translation, or (3) operation of the Software outside the environmental conditions specified in the Documentation for the Software.  EXCEPT AS SPECIFICALLY PROVIDED HEREIN, THE SOFTWARE IS NOT ERROR-FREE AND IS BEING PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. DATA TRANSLATION HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ORAL OR WRITTEN, WITH RESPECT TO THE DATA TRANSLATION SOFTWARE INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND ALL WARRANTIES IMPLIED FROM ANY COURSE OF DEALING, COURSE OF PERFORMANCE OR USAGE OF TRADE.

11.  LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.  DATA TRANSLATION'S LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES TO LICENSEE FOR ANY CAUSE WHATSOEVER, REGARDLESS OF THE FORM OF ANY CLAIM OR ACTION, SHALL NOT EXCEED (A) IN THE CASE OF A CLAIM ARISING DURING THE SOFTWARE WARRANTY PERIOD, THE AGGREGATE LICENSE FEES PAID BY LICENSEE FOR THE PRODUCT INVOLVED IN THE CLAIM, OR (B) IN THE CASE OF ANY CLAIM ARISING AFTER THE SOFTWARE WARRANTY PERIOD, THE AGGREGATE SUPPORT FEES PAID BY LICENSEE FOR THE THREE (3) MONTHS PRIOR TO THE CLAIM.  DATA TRANSLATION SHALL IN NO EVENT BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOSS OF DATA, PROFITS
OR USE OF THE SOFTWARE, OR FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, PUNITIVE OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE DATA TRANSLATION SOFTWARE WITHOUT REGARD TO WHETHER DATA TRANSLATION HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.  THESE LIMITATIONS ARE INDEPENDENT FROM ALL OTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT AND SHALL APPLY NOTWITHSTANDING THE FAILURE OF ANY REMEDY PROVIDED HEREIN.

12.  COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.  Licensee shall not export or re-export, directly or indirectly (including via remote access), Software, Documentation or other information or materials provided by Data Translation hereunder, to any country for which the United States or any other relevant jurisdiction requires any export license or other governmental approval at the time of export without first obtaining such license or approval.  It shall be Licensee's responsibility to comply with the latest United States export regulations, and Licensee shall defend and indemnify Data Translation from and against any damages, fines, penalties, assessments, liabilities, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and court costs) arising out of any claim that Software, Documentation, or other information or materials provided by Data Translation hereunder were exported or otherwise accessed, shipped or transported in violation of applicable laws and regulations.  Licensee shall comply with all laws, legislation, rules, regulations, and governmental requirements with respect to the Software, and the performance by Licensee of its obligations hereunder, of any jurisdiction in or from which Licensee directly or indirectly causes the Software to be used or accessed.  In the event that this Agreement is required to be registered with any governmental authority, Licensee shall cause such registration to be made and
shall bear any expense or tax payable in respect thereof.

13.  GENERAL PROVISIONS.

14.1  Force Majeure.  In the event that either party is prevented from performing, or is unable to perform, any of its obligations under this Agreement due to any cause beyond the reasonable control of the party invoking this provision, the affected party's performance shall be extended for the period of delay or inability to perform due to such occurrence.

14.2  Publicity.  Licensee shall not originate any publicity, news release or other public announcement relating to the Software, this Agreement, its terms or the existence of an arrangement between the parties without the prior 
written approval of Data Translation, except as otherwise required by law. 

14.3  Waiver.  The waiver by either party of a breach or a default of any provision of this Agreement by the other party shall not be construed as a waiver of any succeeding breach of the same or any other provision, nor shall any
delay or omission on the part of either party to exercise or avail itself of any right, power or privilege that it has, or may have hereunder, operate as a waiver of any right, power or privilege by such party.

14.4  No Agency;  Independent Contractors.  Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to constitute either party as the agent or representative of the other party, or both parties as joint venturers or partners for any purpose.

14.5  Governing Law;  Jurisdiction & Venue.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, USA, without regard to its choice of law provisions.  In the event of any  conflict between foreign laws, rules and regulations and those of the United States, the laws, rules and regulations of the United States shall govern.  The United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods shall not apply to this Agreement.  Exclusive jurisdiction and venue for any litigation arising under this Agreement is in the federal and state courts located in Suffolk County, Massachusetts, and both parties hereby consent to such jurisdiction and venue for this purpose.

14.6  Entire Agreement;  Amendment.  This Agreement, and the Support Policy if elected, constitute the entire agreement between the parties with regard to the subject matter hereof.  No waiver, consent, modification or change of terms of this Agreement shall bind either party unless in writing signed by both parties, and then such waiver, consent, modification or change shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose given.  
Terms set forth in any purchase order of Licensee (or other similar document) that are in addition to or at variance with the terms of this Agreement are specifically waived by Licensee.  All such terms are considered by Data Translation to be proposed material alterations of this license and are rejected.  Licensee's purchase order is only effective as Licensee's unqualified commitment to pay for a license to the Software upon the terms
(and only the terms) set forth herein.

14.7  Costs, Expenses and Attorneys' Fees.  Licensee shall reimburse Data Translation for all reasonable costs (including attorneys' fees) incurred by Data Translation in collecting late payments from Licensee.  If either party commences any action or proceeding against the other party to enforce or interpret this Agreement, the prevailing party in such action or proceeding shall be entitled to recover from the other party the actual costs, 
expenses and attorneys' fees (including all related costs and expenses), incurred by such prevailing party in connection with such action or proceeding and in connection with obtaining and enforcing any judgment or order thereby obtained.

14.8  Assignment.  This Agreement and the rights and obligations hereunder, may not be assigned, in whole or in part by Licensee, except to a successor to the whole of Licensee's business, without the prior written consent of Data 
Translation.  In the case of any permitted assignment or transfer of or under this Agreement, this Agreement or the relevant provisions shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the successors, executors, heirs,
representatives, administrators and assigns of the parties hereto.

14.9  Notices.  Any notice or communication from one party to the other shall be in writing and either personally delivered or sent via facsimile or certified mail, postage prepaid and return receipt requested, addressed to such other party (a) if to Data Translation, at the address specified in the first paragraph of this Agreement, Attention: [Legal], and (b) if to Licensee, at the address specified in Licensee's purchase order for this 
license or in either case at such other address as such party may from time to time designate in a notice to the other party.  All notices shall be in English and shall be effective upon receipt.

14.10  Acknowledgment.  Licensee acknowledges that (a) it has read and understands this Agreement; (b) it has had an opportunity to have its legal counsel review this Agreement;  (c) that this Agreement has the same force and effect as a signed agreement; (d) Data Translation requires identification of the Licensee before issuing this license; and (e) issuance of this license does not constitute general publication of the Software, the Documentation or other Confidential Information.

