To install a DT3152LS device in Windows XP, you need to disable the device, then install 
and configure the device driver as described in the following sections.

NOTE: In some machines, the DT3152-LS may not be detected automatically when you start Windows XP.
If this should occur, skip the section on disabling the device, and continue with the instructions 
installing and configuring the device driver.


Disabling the device:
You need to disable the device so that Windows XP does not reidentify the board every time 
the system is restarted. To disable the device, perform the following steps:

1. Install the board and start Windows XP (with administrative rights).
   The Found New Hardware Wizard dialog box is displayed.
2. Select Install from a list of specific location (Advanced).
3. Click Next.
4. Click the Search for the best driver in these locations, and uncheck all other options.
5. Click Next.
6. Uncheck all Optional search locations boxes, then click Next.
   If the Multimedia Video Controller dialog box appears, proceed to step 7.
   Otherwise, the message Cannot Install this Hardware appears; proceed to step 8.
7. Select the option No, do not connect to Internet now, then click Next. 
8. Select Don’t prompt me again to install this software, then click Finish.
   The Help and Support Center window appears.
9. Click Cancel, then click Finish.

Installing/Configuring the Device Driver:
Once you have disabled the device, install/configure the device driver by 
performing the following steps:

 1. From the Control Panel, select Add/Remove Hardware.
    The Add Hardware Wizard appears.
 2. Click Next.
    A message about hardware connection appears.
 3. Select Yes, I have already connected the hardware, then click Next.
 4. Scroll through the list and select Add a new hardware device, then click Next.
 5. Select Install the hardware that I manually select from a list (Advanced), then click Next.
 6. Click Sound, video and game controllers, then click Next.
 7. Click Have Disk.
 8. Insert the Imaging OMNI CD into your CD-ROM drive.
 9. Browse to the \Drivers\DT3152LS\Win2K directory on the Imaging OMNI CD. 
10. Select the OEMSETUP.INF file, then click Open.
11. Click OK.
    A Software Installation window appears.
12. Click Continue Anyway.
    A Digital Signature Not Found dialog box appears.
13. Click Next.
14. Click Next.
    A message about the compatibility with Windows XP appears.
15. Click Continue Anyway.
    The DT-Open Layers configuration dialog box appears.
16. Click Add New.
17. Enter a name for the device, then click Add.
18. On the General tab of the DT3152LS Configuration dialog box, click Enable Board to activate the board.
    If you want to retain the settings but disable the board, remove the checkmark next to Enable Board.
19. To configure the board for area-scan (two-dimensional) operations, perform the following steps:
    a. On the General tab of the DT3152LS Configuration dialog box, click Enable 2 Dimensional Mode.
    b. Click the 2 Dimension tab of the DT3152LS Configuration dialog box. 
    c. For Video Format, indicate the video format that you want for the default setting by clicking 
       50 Hz or 60 Hz.
    d. For Memory Size, select the amount of memory (in MB) that you want to allocate in your system to 
       hold the acquired frames. A 60 Hz, 640-by-480 image requires 308 KB per frame; a 50 Hz, 768-by-576
       image requires 443 KB per frame. The upper limit depends on your system’s resources. The 
       recommended minimum is 1 MB.
20. To configure the board for line-scan (one-dimensional) operations, perform the following steps: 
    a. Click the General tab of the DT3152LS Configuration dialog box, then click Enable Line Scan Mode.
    b. Click the Line Scan tab of the DT3152LS Configuration dialog box.
    c. Enter the number of 500 KB FIFO buffers to use. A typical number of FIFO buffers is 9. The default
       is 0. If, when running your program, you encounter overflow errors, increase the number of FIFO 
       buffers. In the DT3152LS Configuration dialog box, you can enable the board for both 2 Dimensional
       Mode and Line Scan mode at the same time. However, if you want to maximize system memory, enable 
       only one mode at a time.
21. Click OK.
    The DT3152-LS Configuration dialog box reappears; you can see the name of the board you just added.
22. Click Close to finish.
    A dialog box appears, indicating that you need to restart Windows XP for the changes to take effect.
23. Click Finish.
24. Restart the system. 
